in 1986 a four-year-old named Forrest
skipper was voted horse of the year and
recently I got a chance to talk to the
driver of this legendary pacer who
should Fontaine is with me and now for
skipper
15 for 15 horse of the year oh my gosh
I'm so excited about him big on the show
so the tie-in to Delaware is that this
horse actually raced his last race at
Dover Downs is that correct yes
the people from Delaware always loved a
good horse and I spoke to my owner
Forrest Bartlett and I said you know we
beat every horse on every track and I
said I'd like to go I was very friendly
with Ted Leonard and he was a race
secretary and I called Ted and as I'd
like to bring forth skipper his last
race but the open is 2,500 I said the
only thing I'd like to do is if you make
the first 5,000 so the horse that
finished second we'd get the same thing
if I wasn't there because I wouldn't
want to take that 1,200 away from the
Delaware horsemen and he agreed and
that's what brought for skipper here and
I'm so glad that I did it very cool any
set a track record at the same time
correct yes he did yes he said about 10
track records so it was a pleasure and
the people who love to see a good horse
race so was I'm real happy that I
brought him here one of his most famous
races is the u.s. pacing championship
because it ends up being a match race
was Falcon seal stir now when you're in
a match race I just want to explain to
everybody the worst of the rail usually
goes to the front and sets the fractions
backs up the half a little bit and then
Sprint's home you know so if you get the
rail you're the lucky one but it didn't
happen like that at all in this match
race no no none this right I knew I had
the best source and any horse in that
caliber I knew that Falcons sister could
face a quarter in twenty six maybe a
little bit better than 12 second the
last eight and I said I got the best
horse I'm gonna look at him in the eye I
never had any idea of tucking behind him
because I said I'm tougher I'm gonna
look at him right in the eye like do you
do with the flats they let him run and
that's what I did with Falcon sis I
stayed rad at him
never let him back up and I really put
the pressure on him and everybody
thought oh my god he's parked what is he
leaving when that was the only way that
I could make sure that I was gonna beat
him was to go Adam don't let him take a
breather and then I will end up opening
up to 18 lengths so I always had in my
mind to just go at him they are noses
apart looking each other right in the
eye as they move over to the half mile
the quarter was up in 27 to 54 and 2/5
seconds and now for skipper he's in gear
he is taking a clear lead and balcon
sister cannot what was the most
memorable race for you because everybody
seems to remember that match race but
for you what was the most incredible
race for him one of the if his best race
was as a three-year-old I had won like a
few races and I had to race against a
five-course entry that mr. gyda own
Persian square primis niya later and all
that I was dead last at the head of the
stretch at the Meadowlands and I
couldn't wait for the stretch and then
staff director was a favorite he was in
front by two and I came on the outside
the announcer never had a chance to
really say his name though the last call
and I went and shot him down and to me
that was one of his best race and of
course as a 4y he had quite a great
races yeah well you know Ashley and a
lot of people don't realize this but as
a four-year-old you know of course he
was undefeated but was so is Jake Lebel
who was a two-year-old that's the only
time in harness racing history the two
horses have gone head-to-head to be like
horse of the year that were both
undefeated I just wanted to throw that
little tidbit out there you know when he
came back as a four-year-old because he
raced so great as a three-year-old they
hazard
race against Naya later a whole lot of
other great horses when he came back as
a four-year-old he came back and came
back strong like there was no getting
into races I mean he was coming back
winning in multi moves you don't see
that nowadays especially at that top
level he was making two and three moves
to win right off the get-go right what
happened as a three-year-old you know he
was a good horse right from their day
was born but wanted a race at Garden
State
a stellar field of 12 standout
three-year-old Pacers whose combined
earnings total seven point six million
dollars yet set for the $770,000 pilgrim
final at Garden State Park I win my
division and 153 and one and nine later
Winn is in 153 and one we got in the
final he's got a five or century I do
the eight nine later Judah ten and I
took my time on the outside II was
breeding right down my neck and I just
took my time and the other entry wanted
me to go but I knew he'd come at me
right away I don't know if you saw him
race but he had a heck of a brush
dilator and then when neither came to me
in the last turn I just we open seven
lengths on the field and Knight later
got beat at the war by Ron Waco's little
horse and he got the respect of mr.
guide and that's what set up the
syndication for him as a four-year-old
because I made a statement as a
four-year-old that he was a much better
horse as a four-year-old
so mr. gyda he saw what he could do as a
three he wanted a by him so I had a few
farm going so I got the best deal for
mr. Bartlett yeah I know that race it
was the pilgrim I could talk about this
horse for an entire half an hour that's
why we had to have you at the end of the
half an hour of the show because we've
had Lucien at the beginning of the half
an hour then we would just be talking
for an entire half an hour about for
skipper so anyway thank you so much for
being on the show oh it's my pleasure
for the people of Delaware I'm so happy
that I brought him here
because they love good horses thank you
again
oh you're so welcome